# Master thesis - Comparing the viability of AlphaZero in games with perfect, imperfect, and no information
## Prerequisites
The project is written in Python. The Python-Version it was developed and tested on is 3.7. It should run however for all 3.5 - 3.8 versions.
Please download the Python here: https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-383/
The Tensorflow library is required to run any of the files. Please download Tensorflow here: https://www.tensorflow.org/install, or install it via pip or conda.
For this project Tensorflow 2.0 was used. It is important to download a 2.x version.

To avoid to long training sessions, please make sure that Tensorflow has access to your GPU: https://www.tensorflow.org/guide/gpu. This is not necessary but will save a lot of time.
## How to use
Before any statistics or plots can be generated, an AlphaZero model needs to be created.
To create an AlphaZero model, go to the folder of the game and execute the Generator.py with
`python Generator.py`.
When the generator finished (this might take a while), you shoule be able to see a new subdirectory, called 'results' ,which appeared in the game folder. This subdirectory contains the AlphaZero model from different stages of the training and statistics about win rate and Elo rate during the training. Now it is possible to plot the Elo-rating during the training (visualizer.py and visualizer_rates.py), to play against the AI (PlayAgainstAI.py), or to generate statistics about the playstyle of AlphaZero (Arena.py).
Please note that every execution of the generator creates a different AI, which might have a different behavoiur and playstyle.  
## File Description
In the following, a short description about all the files in the repository is given:

File | Description | Executable | Requirement
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
visualizer.py | Used to create a plot of the Elo-rating | Yes | Textfile that contains the data. The textfile will be generated by each of the generators along the model. You might need to edit the path to the textfile in the source code. Right now, the path points to the data generated by the TicTacToe generator.
visualizer_rates.py | Used to plot the win rate, loss rate, and draw rate | Yes | Textfile that contains the win rates. The textfile will be generated by each of the generators along the model. You might need to edit the path to the textfile in the source code. Right now, the path points to the data generated by the TicTacToe generator.
### TicTacToe
File | Description | Executable | Requirement
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
Board.py | Represents the board of TicTacToe, used by the generator | No | ---
Generator.py | Creates an AlphaZero model, trains it and measures its Elo-value against a comparison AI| Yes | No requirement, is the starting point.
MCSTLeafNode.py | Represents the MCST of TicTacToe, used by the generator | No | ---
MCSTNode.py | Represents the MCST of TicTacToe, used by the generator | No | ---
MCSTNodeInterface.py | Represents the MCST of TicTacToe, used by the generator | No | ---
MCSTRootNode.py | Represents the MCST of TicTacToe, used by the generator | No | ---
PlayAgainstAI.py | Play against an AlphaZero model | Yes | AlphaZero model, which is automatically created by the generator
Player.py | Represents the player of TicTacToe, used by the generator | No | ---
TestPlayer.py | Comparison AI TicTacToe | No | ---
TestPlayerRandom.py | Random AI TicTacToe | No | ---
arena.py | Used to analyize the playstyle of AlphaZero | Yes | AlphaZero model, which is automatically created by the generator
### 6Nimmt
File | Description | Executable | Requirement
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
Board.py | Represents the board of Take 6!, used by the generator | No | ---
Generator.py | Creates an AlphaZero model, trains it and measures its Elo-value against a comparison AI (Takes very long)| Yes | No requirement, is the starting point.
MCSTLeafNode.py | Represents the MCST of Take 6!, used by the generator | No | ---
MCSTNode.py | Represents the MCST of Take 6!, used by the generator | No | ---
MCSTNodeInterface.py | Represents the MCST of Take 6!, used by the generator | No | ---
MCSTRootNode.py | Represents the MCST of Take 6!, used by the generator | No | ---
PlayAgainstAI.py | Play against an AlphaZero model | Yes | AlphaZero model, which is automatically created by the generator
Player.py | Represents the player of Take 6!, used by the generator | No | ---
TestPlayer.py | Random AI Take 6! | No | ---
TestPlayer2.py | Comparison AI Take 6! | No | ---
Arena.py | Used to analyize the playstyle of AlphaZero | Yes | AlphaZero model, which is automatically created by the generator
### Rock Paper Scissors
File | Description | Executable | Requirement
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
Board.py | Represents the board of Rock Paper Scissors, used by the generator | No | ---
Generator.py | Creates an AlphaZero model, trains it and measures its Elo-value against a comparison AI	| Yes | Needs an internet connection, is the starting point.
Player.py	| Represents the player of Take 6!, used by the generator | No | ---
TestPlayer.py	| Primitive Comparison AI | No | ---
TestPlayerStirling.py	| Queries the Rock Paper Scissors AI of the sterling University | No | ---
